# problem

Given an array nums and a value val, remove all instances of that value in-place and return the new length.

Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by modifying the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

The order of elements can be changed. It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the new length.

Example 1:

Given nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3,

Your function should return length = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2.

It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.
Example 2:

Given nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2,

Your function should return length = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 1, 3, 0, and 4.

Note that the order of those five elements can be arbitrary.

It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.

**in-place**:原地的

## C++

### Question

- how to remove an element from vector

```c++
  // erase the 6th element
  myvector.erase (myvector.begin()+5);

  // erase the first 3 elements:
  myvector.erase (myvector.begin(),myvector.begin()+3);

```

- std::remove vs vector::erase [from here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-stdremove-and-vectorerase-for-vectors/)

  1. By using erase all elements in a std::vector will be shifted by 1 causing a large amount of copies; std::remove does just a ‘logical’ delete and leaves the vector unchanged by moving things around.
  2. If you need to remove multiple elements from the vector, the std::remove will copy each, not removed element only once to its final location, while the vector::erase approach would move all of the elements from the position to the end multiple times.
  3. For Example, Consider removing all elements < 5 in following vector.
```c++
std::vector v { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };
// remove all elements < 5
```
  Using erase, If you went over the vector removing elements one by one, you would remove the 1, causing copies of the remainder elements that get shifted (4). Then you would remove 2 and shift all remaining elements by one (3)… if you see the pattern this is a O(N^2) algorithm.

    In the case of std::remove the algorithm maintains a head, and iterates over the container. For the first 4 elements the head will be moved and the element tested, but no element is copied. Only for the fifth element the object would be copied from the last to the first position, and the algorithm will complete with a single copy and returning an iterator to the second position. This is a O(N) algorithm. The later std::vector::erase with the range will cause destruction of all the remainder elements and resizing the container.


  4. Therefore, erase() is something you can do to an element in a container, remove() is something you can do to a range as it re-arranges that range but doesn’t erase anything from the range..
